Publish PS101 content (#6064)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/learn/ps101/10-script-modules.md

---
title: Script modules
description: Script modules are an easy way to package scripts and functions into a reusable tool.
ms.date: 06/02/2020
ms.topic: guide
ms.custom: Contributor-mikefrobbins
ms.reviewer: mirobb
---
# Chapter 10 - Script modules

Turning your one-liners and scripts in PowerShell into reusable tools becomes even more important if
it's something that you're going to use frequently. Packaging your functions in a script module
makes them look and feel more professional and makes them easier to share.

## Dot-Sourcing Functions

Something that we didn't talk about in the previous chapter is dot-sourcing functions. When a

> function in a script that isn't part of a module, the only way to load it into memory is to

Author: fixed

Get-ChildItem -Path Function:\Get-MrPSVersion
```

```Output
Get-ChildItem : Cannot find path 'Get-MrPSVersion' because it does not exist.
At line:1 char:1
+ Get-ChildItem -Path Function:\Get-MrPSVersion
    + CategoryInfo          : ObjectNotFound: (Get-MrPSVersion:String) [Get-ChildItem],
   ItemNotFoundException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : PathNotFound,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.GetChildItemCommand
```

The problem with calling the script that contains the function is that the functions are loaded in
the _Script_ scope. When the script completes, that scope is removed and the function is removed
with it.

The function needs to be loaded into the _Global_ scope. That can be accomplished by dot-sourcing
the script that contains the function. The relative path can be used.

```powershell
. .\Get-MrPSVersion.ps1
```

The fully qualified path can also be used.

```powershell
. C:\Demo\Get-MrPSVersion.ps1
```

If a portion of the path is stored in a variable, it can be combined with the remainder of the path.
There's no reason to use string concatenation to combine the variable together with the remainder of
the path.

```powershell
$Path = 'C:\'
. $Path\Get-MrPSVersion.ps1
```

> Now when I check the function PSDrive, the `Get-MrPSVersion` function exists.

Author: Fixed

    For technical information, type: "get-help New-Module -full".
    For online help, type: "get-help New-Module -online"
```

In the previous chapter, I mentioned that functions should use approved verbs otherwise they'll
generate a warning message when the module is imported. The following code uses the `New-Module`
cmdlet to create a dynamic module in memory. This module demonstrates the unapproved verb warning.

```powershell
New-Module -Name MyModule -ScriptBlock {

    function Return-MrOsVersion {
        Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_OperatingSystem |
        Select-Object -Property @{label='OperatingSystem';expression={$_.Caption}}
    }

    Export-ModuleMember -Function Return-MrOsVersion

} | Import-Module
```

```Output
WARNING: The names of some imported commands from the module 'MyModule' include
unapproved verbs that might make them less discoverable. To find the commands with
unapproved verbs, run the Import-Module command again with the Verbose parameter. For a
list of approved verbs, type Get-Verb.
```

Just to reiterate, although the `New-Module` cmdlet was used in the previous example, that's not the
command for creating script modules in PowerShell.

> Save the following two functions in a file named MyScriptModule.psm1.

Author: Fixed

```powershell
function Get-MrPSVersion {
    $PSVersionTable
}

function Get-MrComputerName {
    $env:COMPUTERNAME
}
```

Try to call one of the functions.

```powershell
Get-MrComputerName
```

```Output
Get-MrComputerName : The term 'Get-MrComputerName' is not recognized as the name of a
cmdlet, function, script file, or operable program. Check the spelling of the name, or
if a path was included, verify that the path is correct and try again.
At line:1 char:1
+ Get-MrComputerName
    + CategoryInfo          : ObjectNotFound: (Get-MrComputerName:String) [], CommandNot
   FoundException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : CommandNotFoundException
```

An error message is generated saying the function can't be found. You could also check the function

> PSDrive just like before and you'll find that it doesn't exist there either.

Author: Fixed

autoloading, a script module needs to be saved in a folder with the same base name as the `.PSM1` file
and in a location specified in `$env:PSModulePath`.

```powershell
$env:PSModulePath
```

```Output
C:\Users\mike-ladm\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules;C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\
Modules;C:\Windows\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules;C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsof
t SQL Server\130\Tools\PowerShell\Modules\
```

The results are difficult to read. Since the paths are separated by a semicolon, you can split the
results to return each path on a separate line. This makes them easier to read.

```powershell
$env:PSModulePath -split ';'
```

```Output
C:\Users\mike-ladm\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\Windows\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules
C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server\130\Tools\PowerShell\Modules\
```

The first three paths in the list are the default. When SQL Server Management Studio was installed,
it added the last path. For module autoloading to work, the `MyScriptModule.psm1` file needs to be
located in a folder named `MyScriptModule` directly inside one of those paths.

> Not so fast. For me, the current user path is the first one in the list. I almost never use that
> path since I log into Windows as a different user than which I run PowerShell. That means it's not
> located in my normal Documents folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not so fast. For me, my current user path isn't the first one in the list. I almost never use that
path since I log into Windows as a different user than I run PowerShell. That means it's not
located in my normal Documents folder.
```

Author: Fixed

The second path is the **AllUsers** path. This is the location where I store all of my modules.

The third path is underneath `C:\Windows\System32`. Only Microsoft should be storing modules in that
location since it resides within the operating systems folder.

Once the `.PSM1` file is located in the correct path, the module will load automatically when one of
its commands is called.

## Module Manifests

All modules should have a module manifest. A module manifest contains metadata about your module.
The file extension for a module manifest file is `.PSD1`. Not all files with a `.PSD1` extension are
module manifests. They can also be used for things such as storing the environmental portion of a
DSC configuration. `New-ModuleManifest` is used to create a module manifest. **Path** is the only

> value that's required. However, the module won't work if root module isn't specified. It's a good

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value that's required. However, the module won't work if **RootModule** isn't specified. It's a good
```

Author: Fixed

```

If you've added a module manifest to your module (and you should), then I recommend specifying the
individual functions you want to export in the **FunctionsToExport** section of the module manifest.

```powershell
FunctionsToExport = 'Get-MrPSVersion'
```

It's not necessary to use both `Export-ModuleMember` in the `.PSM1` file and the
**FunctionsToExport** section of the module manifest. One or the other is sufficient.

## Summary

In this chapter you've learned how to turn your functions into a script module in PowerShell. You've
also leaned some of the best practices for creating script modules such as creating a module
manifest for your script module.

## Review

1. How do you create a script module in PowerShell?
1. Why is it important for your functions to use an approved verb?
1. How do you create a module manifest in PowerShell?
1. What are the two options for exporting only certain functions from your module?
1. What is required for your modules to load automatically when a command is called?

## Recommended Reading

- [How to Create PowerShell Script Modules and Module Manifests][]
- [about_Modules][]
- [New-ModuleManifest][]
- [Export-ModuleMember][]

> <!-- link references -->
> - [How to Create PowerShell Script Modules and Module Manifests]: https://mikefrobbins.com/2013/07/04/how-to-create-powershell-script-modules-and-module-manifests/
> - [about_Modules]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_modules
> - [New-ModuleManifest]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/new-modulemanifest
> - [Export-ModuleMember]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/export-modulemember

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- link references -->
[How to Create PowerShell Script Modules and Module Manifests]: https://mikefrobbins.com/2013/07/04/how-to-create-powershell-script-modules-and-module-manifests/
[about_Modules]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_modules
[New-ModuleManifest]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/new-modulemanifest
[Export-ModuleMember]: /powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/export-modulemember
```
